As Jehovah's people, we enjoy many undeserved and precious privileges.
Among them we bear Jehovah's name and render him sacred service.
As we carry out his will, he dignifies us in a very special way.
At 1 Corinthians 3.9 the Apostle Paul under inspiration stated that we are God's fellow
workers.
What an honor to be a fellow worker with the Universal Sovereign, our loving Heavenly Father.
To build appreciation for the privilege of working with Jehovah, we're going to review events
in the life of Jonathan, son of King Saul.
1 Samuel 1445 describes Jonathan when it says, for it was with God that he acted this day.
What was the background that led to this statement?
How did Jonathan act or work with Jehovah on that day?
What lessons can we learn from their working relationship?
And what blessings result from being a fellow worker with God?
Let us begin with some background.
1 Samuel 12 and 20 records the encouraging words spoken by the prophet Samuel to the nation
of Israel.
Do not be afraid.
Only do not turn away from following Jehovah and serve Jehovah with all your heart.
Verse 22 adds, for the sake of his great name, Jehovah will not abandon his people.
As long as they remain faithful, Jehovah would always be there to guide, protect, and
rescue them.
These words no doubt strengthen Jonathan to carry out Jehovah's directive to subdue
the enemy nations and take possession of the Promised Land.
At 1 Samuel 13, we read that Jonathan was assigned 1000 men to attack a Philistine
garrison at Giebel.
Although poorly equipped, Jonathan and his men succeeded.
This victory strengthens Jonathan's confidence in Jehovah and provides a valuable lesson
for us.
While we gain strength and courage from Jehovah's reassuring words in the scriptures, our confidence
in Jehovah's support becomes even stronger when we successfully carry out our assignments
that may seem overwhelming.
The account then relates how the Philistines were infuriated over their defeat and mounted
a massive counterattack.
They sent out raiding parties from their account at McMash near Jerusalem.
Many as light men hid out of fear, and some even fled to the other side of the Jordan River.
In contrast, Jonathan remained courageous.
Permen to put a stop to the raids, he confronted the Philistine outpost at the ravine pass
of McMash.
The approach was by way of a deep gorge with nearly vertical cliffs.
This would have seen next to impossible to someone unfamiliar with the area, but Jonathan
grew up in this territory and apparently knew it well.
His knowledge of the surroundings provides another practical lesson.
Whatever theocratic assignment we may be given, putting forth time and effort to get
to know that the terrain, so to speak, will contribute to our effectiveness.
When we show interest in our assigned work, we become even more effective fellow workers
of Jehovah.
Let's read as Jonathan prepares to take action against the Philistines.
First Samuel 146 states, so Jonathan said to his armor bearer,
come and let us cross over to the outpost of these uncircumcised men.
Perhaps Jehovah will act in our behalf.
For nothing can hinder Jehovah from saving by many or by few.
What contributed to his confidence in Jehovah?
Recall that he put faith in Jehovah's reassuring words to the prophet Samuel.
Do not be afraid.
For the sake of his great name, Jehovah will not abandon his people.
He experienced Jehovah's support when he struck down the Philistine garrison at Giba.
Jonathan could also think back on Israel's history.
He could reflect on how Gideon and his 300 men were victorious over 135,000 Mideonites.
He could meditate on Samson killing 1,000 Philistines with the jawbone of a donkey.
Such examples would bolster his confidence that he was working with the Almighty God,
Jehovah.
We too can meditate on fellow workers of God recorded in the scriptures, as well as
published life stories of modern-day faithful servants.
Such examples reinforce our faith in Jehovah as we rely on him for success.
Another lesson comes from the response of Jonathan's armor bearer at 1 Samuel 147.
At this, his armor bearer said to him,
Do whatever your heart impels you to do.
Turn wherever you wish, and I will follow you wherever your heart impels you.
It is unlikely that the attendant would have initiated this challenging mission on his own.
Jonathan's confident lead was a positive motivating influence on the man.
What happens today when elders and overseers take the lead and display zeal in Jehovah's
work like Jonathan?
Others in the congregation are also motivated to action by their fine example.
Let us now read verses 8-10.
When Jonathan said,
We will cross over to those men and reveal our presence to them.
If they say to us,
Stand still until we come to you,
We will stand where we are and not go up to them.
But if they say,
Come up against us,
We will go up,
Because Jehovah will give them into our hand.
This will be our sign.
Jonathan once again demonstrated humble reliance on Jehovah.
Earlier in Samuel's account,
Jonathan is described as
Swifter than Eagles and mightier than the Lions.
However,
These qualities and abilities did not cause him to be self-reliant or overconfident.
He sought Jehovah's direction by means of a sign.
What a powerful reminder for us.
Regardless of any natural abilities, acquired skills or experience we may have,
The key to success is seeking Jehovah's guidance and support.
We seek his direction through specific prayers,
Bible reading and meditation,
And applying direction from the faithful and discrete slave.
We also consult with longtime faithful brothers and sisters
who can share their rich experience as God's fellow workers.
What else can we learn from Jonathan's account?
Picking up at 1 Samuel 1412,
Jonathan and his armor bearer
advanced toward the Philistines.
From their elevated location,
the Philistines shout to them.
Come up to us and we will teach you a lesson.
At once, Jonathan said to his armor bearer,
follow me, for Jehovah will give them into the hand of Israel.
Jonathan had requested a specific sign, and he got it.
But it meant advancing up a steep and treacherous incline right into the enemy hands.
Someone lacking complete trust in Jehovah might have said,
before proceeding,
perhaps we should ask for another sign,
but not Jonathan.
Without hesitation, he told his attendant to follow him
because Jehovah would give the enemy into their hand.
When we received Jehovah's direction,
we should without hesitation put our hearts into the work,
confident of Jehovah's backing.
What happened next?
1 Samuel 14, 13 and 14 reports,
and Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet,
and his armor bearer was behind him.
And the Philistines began to fall before Jonathan,
and his armor bearer was putting them to death behind him.
In the first attack that Jonathan and his armor bearer made,
they struck down about 20 men.
Even after receiving a clear sign from Jehovah, it took great effort.
They had to climb up on their hands and feet,
exerting themselves vigorously over rugged terrain.
The lesson?
Even when we receive clear direction and are ready to obey,
caring out our assignments will not always be easy.
We have to exert ourselves vigorously,
being willing to work hard with all of our mind, heart, and strength.
How did the Philistines react to seeing Jehovah's support for his people?
1 Samuel 14, 15 reads,
then terror spread in the Phil camp and among all the people of the outpost,
and even the raiding parties were terrified.
The earth began quaking and a terror from God ensued.
The earthquake Jehovah caused melted the Philistines' hearts.
Soon the Israelites, even those who had previously fled in fear,
joined the victory battle over the Philistines.
Likewise, when we put our hearts into theocratic assignments,
Jehovah, our best fellow worker,
will always come through with whatever we need to accomplish his will.
But there's another lesson to be learned from this exciting Bible account.
During the height of the battle, King Saul gave an unwise order, saying,
cursed is the man who eats any food before the evening
and until I have taken vengeance on my enemies.
Jonathan, however, was not aware of his father's order
and ate some wild honey that he had found.
How did Saul react when he discovered that his own son had disobeyed him?
1 Samuel 14, 43, and 44 tells us,
then Saul said to Jonathan,
tell me, what have you done?
So Jonathan told him,
I merely tasted a little honey on the tip of the staff in my hand.
Here I am, I am ready to die.
At this Saul said,
thus may God do and may he add to it if you do not die, Jonathan.
Imagine, after all that Jonathan had done
in risking his life and behalf of his people
and seeing Jehovah grant so much success,
he is now being condemned to death by his own father.
How his heart must have sank in disbelief, disappointment, and sadness?
Would Jehovah now abandon his loyal fellow worker?
1 Samuel 14, 45 reads,
but the people said to Saul,
should Jonathan die?
The one who brought this great victory to Israel?
It is unthinkable,
as surely as Jehovah is alive,
not even a single hair of his head should fall to the ground,
for it was with God that he acted this day.
With that, the people rescued Jonathan, and he did not die.
Jonathan's success provided undeniable evidence
that he was truly Jehovah's fellow worker.
Jehovah, who had been at Jonathan's side the whole time,
saw everything that had happened
and would not allow his loyal worker to die at Saul's hands.
How comforting to know that when we faithfully carry out our assignments,
he will never forget our zealous efforts.
If someone as close as a father fails to see and appreciate the work we do in Jehovah's service,
or even turns against us,
Jehovah will never forget our work.
He will always be there to guide, support, protect, and bless us.
What a faith-building account we've considered in 1 Samuel 13 and 14.
Why not take the time to read these chapters for yourself?
You'll be moved to imitate Jonathan's excellent example of loyalty, courage, and obedience.
We want to be described just as Jonathan was at 1 Samuel 14, 45,
for it was with God that he acted this day.
By continuing as industrious fellow workers with Jehovah,
we are assured that through faith and patience,
we will inherit the promise reward.